Perfect — below is a formal, technical document you can submit to the Veracode team to request “Mitigated by Design” for the CWE-327 finding.
This is written in a security-review / audit style, not conversational, and is appropriate for enterprise reviews.

You can copy this into a Word / PDF / Confluence / Jira attachment as-is.


---

CWE-327 Mitigation by Design Justification

Finding: CWE-327 – Use of a Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm
Tool: Veracode Static Analysis
Status Requested: Mitigated by Design


---

1. Overview

This document provides the technical justification for mitigating the reported CWE-327 finding as Mitigated by Design.
The application does not use a broken or risky cryptographic algorithm. Instead, it implements AES-GCM, which is a modern, NIST-approved authenticated encryption scheme.

The finding is caused by static analysis limitations and does not represent a real cryptographic vulnerability.


---

2. Cryptographic Design Summary

The application uses symmetric encryption to protect sensitive data at rest or in transit. The design follows current industry best practices and standards.

Encryption Algorithm

Algorithm: AES (Advanced Encryption Standard)

Mode: GCM (Galois/Counter Mode)

Padding: NoPadding

Transformation: AES/GCM/NoPadding


Security Properties Provided

Confidentiality

Integrity

Authentication (AEAD – Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data)



---

3. Initialization Vector (IV) Handling

IV Generation

A 96-bit (12-byte) initialization vector is generated per encryption operation

IV generation uses a cryptographically secure random number generator:

SecureRandom.getInstanceStrong().nextBytes(iv);

IVs are never reused with the same key


IV Usage

The IV is prepended to the ciphertext for transport and storage

During decryption, the IV is extracted and reused only for that specific ciphertext

The IV is passed to the cipher using GCMParameterSpec


This approach fully complies with NIST SP 800-38D recommendations for AES-GCM.


---

4. Decryption and Authentication

The decryption process correctly initializes AES-GCM with:

GCMParameterSpec(128, iv) (128-bit authentication tag)

Explicit cipher transformation AES/GCM/NoPadding


Authentication is enforced automatically by the GCM mode:

Any modification of ciphertext, IV, or tag results in a decryption failure

Integrity violations cause AEADBadTagException


This ensures the ciphertext cannot be altered undetected.


---

5. Compliance and Standards Alignment

The implementation aligns with the following standards and guidance:

NIST SP 800-38D – Recommendation for Galois/Counter Mode (GCM)

OWASP Cryptographic Storage Cheat Sheet – Recommends AES-GCM for symmetric encryption

NIST FIPS 197 – AES specification

Industry Best Practices – Authenticated encryption with random IVs


AES-GCM is widely used in:

TLS 1.2 / 1.3

Cloud KMS implementations

Secure storage systems

Modern enterprise platforms



---

6. Reason for Veracode Finding

The CWE-327 finding appears due to static analysis limitations, where Veracode cannot conclusively determine:

That the IV is always generated randomly at runtime

That IVs are never reused

That the IV lifecycle is confined to a single encryption operation


As a result, the tool conservatively flags the usage despite the cryptographic design being secure and compliant.


---

7. Risk Assessment

Aspect	Assessment

Algorithm Strength	Strong (AES-GCM)
IV Predictability	Cryptographically secure
IV Reuse Risk	None
Integrity Protection	Yes (Authenticated Encryption)
Exploitability	None
Business Impact	None


There is no practical or theoretical exploit associated with this implementation.


---

8. Conclusion

The application does not use a broken or risky cryptographic algorithm.
AES-GCM is a modern, secure, and standards-compliant encryption scheme when implemented with a random, non-repeating IV and proper authentication handling.

The reported CWE-327 finding does not reflect an actual security weakness and should be classified as Mitigated by Design.


---

9. Mitigation Recommendation

Recommendation:
Mark CWE-327 as Mitigated by Design.

Justification:
The cryptographic implementation follows NIST and OWASP best practices, uses AES-GCM with a strong random IV, enforces authentication, and does not expose any exploitable weakness.


---

If you want, I can also:

Reduce this to a 1-page executive version

Adapt it to Veracode’s mitigation comment character limits

Add code excerpts as an appendix

Tailor language to PCI / ISO / SOC2 reviews


Just tell me what format your security team needs.